Confessions of an atheist bore
------------------------------

apology
=======
I have to admit, and must apologize, that I am now obsessed by the question of religion. I am possibly the most stereotyped of stereotypical atheists. Can I clearly, and without rancour, express what is wrong with religion? Do I know what to say to someone who is asking the questions that religion is usually assumed to answer? Can I overcome the negative effects religion has had on my life, and help my children and those around me to a positive and fulfilled life?

I have tried talking to people about these issues. Unfortunately my passion, desperation even, and lack of clarity put people off -- assuming they were interested in the first place. In this respect I have found books to be a better friend. They have thought through their words with more care than any human. In return in committing my thoughts to written form, I can go back later and remove anything written out of bitterness - or that which does not withstand reflection.

And of course I now realise that most people are not interested. If you were brought up to think for yourself, and were never attracted to faith, then you may not see why atheists should care. If you are religious I am sure that at some level you will have insulated yourself from sceptical arguments. This would most likely include not being interested in what I have to say. Those few who have struggling to get over religion or, like me, are still scratching an itch over it, can probably go to more elegant diatribes.

So I am writing this primarily for my benefit. I probably don't have a truely original thought. However I have not found a book which I can really point to and say, that book contains everything I need to say.

my inner development
====================
My earliest philosophical thought - I must have been about five - was wondering whether other people were people were made of cardboard. Of course I meant a very sophisticated sort of cardboard. I cannot say I had this very clear, but I did quickly reject this childhood solipcism on the basis that people were much more interesting than cardboard and also that such a theory would make my own existence more puzzling rather than less. However such ruminations do confirm for me that a perception of the existence of a "soul" are natural and arise directly out of our experience.

Nobody in my family ever tried to influence my beliefs. The only exception to this was when I was about 16, and my Dad taught me about Karl Popper and his theory of falsification. I appreciate 

My first two schools were Roman Catholic. This education clearly had a profound influence on my thinking - including the seriousness with which I took religious questions. It also burdened me with a profound sense of my sinfulness. The headmaster of my middle school would begin each Monday morning assembly, with the words "Hands up which of you were on Calvary yesterday." As my parents did not at that point go to church I felt guilty.

However this education did not seem to tether my thinking very firmly. I remember arguing with my Grandfather that there had to be a bit of truth in all religions. As I recall I arrived at this conclusion from a sort symmetry argument - that it made no sense that only people in Europe should have a chance of going to heaven. The same argument made it clear to me that racism was wrong from an early age despite the fact that I witnessed a lot of overt racism in school. However whenever faced with a disagreement, I never seemed to be able to formulate my arguments in a coherent way. And looking back I can see how in my family almost all conversations seemed to be one way. As a family we just did not have the skill or habit of conversation.


Pacifism
========
Every additional pacifist in the world makes the world a better place - so long as those pacifists are evenly spread across the world. If all the world's pacifists were concentrated in one state that state would not last long. If the whole world was pacifist apart from one militaristic war machine, then the world would soon be under the heel of tyranny.