Thoughts on Philosophers
========================

I admire Socrates. I wish I had the skill to ask clever questions like him. I admire him for dying for what he believed in. And he didn't get a raw deal since he lived to about 70. I am intrigued about him because all that we know about him is on such a precarious basis. I don't believe he was anti-democratic just critical of democracy, which any true democrat is.

I admire Epicurius, Democritus and Lucretius for their early and brave insight into the nature of matter.

I can admire Jesus the Nazerene for his insight into the human relationships and the nature of power. However I find it much more plausible now that, as the Biblical scholars say, he may never have existed.

I find Marcus Aurelius frustrating. Here you have a Roman Emperor whose philosophy could be summed up as "You must accept with humility the role that the Gods have assigned to you." So easy for him to say that.

I admire Machiavelli for his honesty and his genuine concern for the long term welfare of the common folk. Of course I also find his views shocking at times.

I admire Jeremy Bentham for arriving at humane conclusions so easily.
I don't think I am committed to any particular moral theory, but Bentham's utilitarianism seems to have been a massive step forward for humanity.

I am intrigued by the story of J.S.Mill's education and draw parallel's between his mental breakdown and that of Eileen Bamber. I admire him for keeping what was good in his inheritance and for prizing the autonomy of the individual.

I admire Charles Darwin for his brilliant and beautiful insight into Evolution, which has revolutionized all of science and more generally human knowledge since. I also admire the painstaking nature of his work and the careful way he negotiated the difficulties this brought him into with fellow humans.

I am disturbed by the lengths people will go to, in an effort to sidestep Evolution. In a way I think this may show the benefits of the literary approach to philosophy - Sartre, Kierkegaard, Nietzsche whether or not I actually think in any specific way they actually helped.

The metaphysics of Kant seems interesting. It is entirely consistent with my other beliefs but also seems to offer a way to think about idealism such as that of Berkeley. As such it also offers a way to challenge my beliefs.
 
I have inherited Karl Popper from my father and my teacher Mr Fudge.
As an epistomology I can see no flaw. I admire him for his advocacy of the "open society".

I am interested in Bertrand Russell because he seems to be accessible.

I am intrigued by Ayn Rand because of her story, her atheism and the starkness of her views. I am disappointed however that at the end she seems to have been a hypocrite.

Other philosophers who seem interesting: Hayek, Rawls, Adam Smith, Locke, Hume, 